This presentation is delivered by the
Stanford Center for Professional
Development.
So welcome back and um what I want to do
today is continue our discussion on
support vector machines. In particular,
I want to talk about the optimal margin
classifier. Um then we'll take a brief
digression to talk about primal and dual
optimization problems and in particular
what's called the KKT conditions. um and
then we'll derive the duo to the
optimization problem that I had posed
earlier and that will lead us into a
discussion of kernels which which I
won't really which we just get to say a
couple of words about but but which I'll
do properly only in the next lecture um
and as part of today's lecture I'll
spend some time talking about
optimization problems um and you know in
the little time I have today I won't
really be able to do this topic justice
I won't talk about convex optimizations
and do that topic justice. And so at
this week's discussion section um the
TAs will um have more time we'll teach a
discussion section focused on convex
optimization. Okay. So it's a very
beautiful and useful theory. Um so you
want to learn more about that listen to
this Friday's um discussion
section just to recap what we did in the
previous lecture.
Um right as we were beginning our
development of support vector machines I
said that um our hypothesis will
represented as h subscript wb as g of
wrpose x + b
um where g will be
um + one or minus one depending on
whether z is is greater than equal to
zero and I said that in our development
of support vector machines we'll use
we'll change the convention of letting y
be plus one minus one denote the cross
labels
um so last
time right we also talked about the
functional margin which was this thing
gamma hat I
Right? And so we had the intuition that
um if the functional margin is a large
positive number, then that means that
we're classifying you know training
example correctly and very confidently.
Right? So if yi is + one, we would like
wrpose x i plus b to be very large and
if x i if excuse me if y i is minus one,
then we'd like wrpose x i plus b to be a
large negative number. So we sort of
like function margins be large. Um we
also said functional margin has a
strange property that you can increase
functional margin just by say taking
your parameters w and b and multiplying
them by two.
Um and then we
also defined the geometric
margin which
was that
Okay, which is essentially the
functional margin um divided by the norm
of W. And so the geometric margin had
the um interpretation as being you know
you have a few training
examples. The geometric margin of the
example is sort of has the
interpretation as a distance between a
training example and a hyper plane and
uh it'll actually be a sign distance. So
that this distance will be positive if
you're classifying the example correctly
and if you're mclassifying example this
distance so the the minus of the
distance between the point between
training example and your separating
hyper plane where the separating hyper
plane is defined by the equation you
wrpose x + b equals zero right
um
okay so oh Well, and I guess I also
defined you know these things as as the
the functional margin and geometric
margins with respect to trading set I
defined as the worst case or the minimum
functional geometric
margin so
um in our development of the optim of
the optimal margin
classifier our learning algorithm would
choose parameters W and B so it's the
maximize the geometric margin. So our
goal is to find a separating hyper plane
that separates the positive and negative
examples with as large a distance as
possible between the hyper plane and the
positive and negative examples. Um and
if you go to choose you know parameters
W and B to maximize this to point out
one property of the geometric margin is
that um you can actually scale W and B
arbitrarily. Right? Okay. So if you look
at this definition for the geometric
margin um I can choose to multiply my
parameters W and B by two or by 10 or by
any other constant and it doesn't change
my geometric margin right and one way of
interpreting that is um you look at this
separating hyper plane you look at this
line you know separating my positive and
negative train examples if I scale W and
B um that doesn't change the position of
this plane right because the equation wx
plus
= 0 is the same as equation 2 wrpose x +
2 v = 0. So it gives the same straight
line and what that means is that I can
actually choose whatever scaling um for
w and b is convenient for me. And in
particular, we'll use this in a minute.
Um I can impose a constraint like that
the norm of w must be equal to one
because um this means that you can find
a solution to w and b and then by
rescaling the parameters you can easily
meet this condition just rescale w to
norm one. And so I can add a condition
like this and and essentially not change
the problem. Um or I can add other
conditions. So I can actually
add a condition that um excuse me the
absolute value of w1 is equal to one. I
can add only one of these conditions
right not both of them. We're going to
add a condition that the absolute value
of the first component of w must be
equal to one. And again you know you can
find the obser solution and just rescale
w and b to meet this condition. Um and I
can add
other more esoteric conditions like
that, right? Because again this is a
condition that you can solve for the
optimal margin and then just by scaling
you know W up and down you can you can
ensure you meet this condition as well.
Okay so again I can only choose one of
these conditions right not all of them.
Um and so our ability to choose any
scaling condition on W that's convenient
to us will will be useful again in a
second. All
right. So let's go ahead and write down
an optimization problem. Um and again my
goal is to choose parameters W and B so
as to maximize the geometric
margin. Um here's my first attempt at
writing down an optimization problem. I
actually wrote this one down um right at
the end of the previous lecture. Going
to solve for parameters gamma, w and b
um such
that that holds you know for
i for m training
examples let's say I choose to add this
normalization condition. Okay. Um so the
norm condition that w the norm of w is
equal to one um this makes the geometric
and the functional margin the same and
so I'm saying I want to find a value I
want to find a value for gamma that's as
big as
possible so that all of my training
examples have functional margin greater
than or equal to
gamma and um with the con with a
constraint that normal w= 1 functional
margin and geometric margin are the
same. Right? So this is saying you find
a value for gamma so that all the values
all the all the geometric margins are
greater than equal to gamma.
Okay. Um so if you solve this
optimization problem then you know you
you have derived the um optimal margin
classifier. Um but this is not a very
nice optimization problem right because
this is a nasty non-convex constraint.
in particular is asking that you solve
for parameters W that um lie on you lie
on the surface of a unit sphere li has
normal ones that lies on a unit circle a
unit sphere right um and so if we can
come up with a convex optimization
problem then we'd be guaranteed that
algorithms like gra desends or other
local search algorithms would not have
local optima it turns out this is an
example of a non-convex constraint so
this is a nsy constraint um that that I
would like to get rid
of.
So let us change the optimization
problem one more time.
Um now let
me pose a slightly different
optimization problem.
Let me maximize the functional margin
divided by the norm of
W subject
to yi wranspose x
i. Okay. So in other words I want to
find a number gamma hat so that every
one of my training examples has um
functional margin greater than gamma
hat. And my optimization objective is I
want to maximize gamma hat divided by
the norm of w. Okay. So I want to
maximize the functional margin divided
by the norm of w. And you know we saw we
saw previously right the function margin
divided by the norm of w is just a
geometric margin. So this is a different
way of posing the same optimization
problem. So I'm seeing some slightly
confused looks. Are there questions
about this?
Is it cool the second statement that has
to be greater than the functional
margin? Why are you dividing it by why
you should have it the geometric margin?
Why do you is there some trick there
that's not? Oh, wait. Say that again. So
the second statement we're saying and
the functional margin dividing by the
norm of W. Oh, I see. Yes. Is that
important? Um let's see. So this is the
functional margin, right? This is not
the geometric margin. Yeah. So um oh I I
want to I I want to um divide by the
norm of w my optimization objective. I'm
just wondering how come you're not
dividing also in the second
state than the functional model. Why are
you dividing there by by the normal w?
Let's
see
um not sure I get the question. Let me
try to explain this again. So here
here's my goal. My I want I want an
optimization. So let's see the
parameters of this optimization problem
were gamma hat w and b right. you know
I'm going to have like a convex
optimization software solve this problem
for some set of parameters gamma hat w
and b and I'm imposing the constraint
that um whatever values it comes out
with you know y i * wrpose x i plus b
must be greater than equal to gamma hat
and so this means that um the functional
margin of every example had better be
greater than equal to gamma hat okay so
this is a constraint that the functional
margin is greater than gamma hat but
what I care about is not really
maximizing the functional margin. What I
really care about, in other words, in my
optimization objective is maximizing
gamma hat divided by the norm of W,
which is the geometric margin. Okay, so
in other words, my my my optimization
problem is I want to maximize the
function margin divided by the norm of
W. Um, you know, subject to that every
example must have, you know, functional
margin at least G have. Does that make
sense now?
When when you say that you maximize
gamma or gamma hat with respect um to
gamma w and respect to gamma hat and b
does mean that these things gamma and
gamma hats are no longer function
um yeah right okay so this is
the right so it turns out um so this is
how I write down an optim this is how I
write down an optimization problem in
order to solve for the geometric margin.
Um what is it? So it turns out that um
the question was is is gamma hat a
function of w and b and it turns out
that um in my previous mathematical
definition it was but the way I'm going
to pose this as a as an optimization
problem is I'm going to ask a convex
optimization solver say let's have
software let's say I have you know
software um uh for solving convex
optimization problems right then I'm
going to pretend that these are
independent variables and ask my convex
optimization software to find me values
for gamma VNB to make this value as pos
as big as possible and subject to this
constraint and it'll turn out that um
when it does that it will choose well
it'll obviously choose gamma to be as
big as possible right because because
the optimization objective is this
you're trying to maximize gamma hat so
for a fixed value of W and B my software
would choose to make gamma hat as big as
possible well but how big can it make
gamma hat is is limited by these
constraints right it says that every
training example
must have functional margin you know
greater than equal to gamma
hat. And so my the the the biggest you
can make gamma hat will be the value of
the smallest functional margin. And so
when you solve this optimization problem
the value of gamma hat you get out will
be indeed um you know the minimum of the
functional margins over your training
set. Okay. So Justin, yeah, I was just
wondering I I guess I'm a little
confused because it's like, okay, you
have like two clouds of data and and you
could say, okay, please draw me a line
such that, you know, you maximize the
the distance between the the smallest
distance from between that line and one
of the, you know, data points. Um, and
it seems like that's kind of what we're
doing, but there's it seems like this is
this is this is more complicated than
that. Um, and I guess I'm wondering what
is the difference. I see. So I mean this
is um the question is of right two
clouds of data trying find sering hyper
plane um uh and this seems more
complicated than trying to find the line
surface of class data. So so I'm just
repeating questions in case since I'm
not sure how well the audio captures it.
Um so the answer is um does this
actually exactly that problem? This is
exactly the problem of you know given
two clouds of data positive and negative
examples. This is exactly the
formalization of the problem where our
goal is to find a line that separates
the two the positive and negative
examples maximizing the worst case
distance between any point and and this
line. Okay. So why do we care about the
worst case distance? Let me yeah for now
why do we care about the worst case
distance? Right. For now, um let's just
let's just say let's just care about the
worst case distance for now. We'll come
back and we'll fix that later. Well,
that's a caring about the worst case
distance is just um is a nice way to
formulate this optimization problem.
I'll come back and actually change that
later. Can you raise your hand if this
makes sense? If this if this formulation
makes sense. Yeah. Okay,
cool. Great. So,
um let's see. So this is a different way
of posing the same optimization problem
and on the one hand I've gotten rid of
this nasty non-convex constraint. Um but
on the other hand I've now you know
added a nasty non-convex objective and
because this is not a convex function in
parameters w and so you can't you don't
have the usual guarantees like if you
apply gender this will converge to
global minimum. Okay, at least that that
that that
um does not follow immediately from this
because this is
non-convex.
Um
so what I'm going to do is
um earlier I said that I can impose any
of you know a number of even fairly
bizarre scaling constraints on W, right?
So I can choose any scaling constraint
like this and things are still fine. And
so here's the scaling I'm going to
choose to add.
Um again I'm going to assume again for
the purpose of today's lecture I'm going
to assume that the examples are linearly
separable that you can actually separate
the positive negative classes and and
we'll we'll come back and fix this later
as well. Um but here's the scaling
constraint I want to impose on W. I want
to impose a constraint
that the functional margin is equal to
one. Okay. Um and another way of writing
that is that I want to impose a
constraint that min over
I
yi that you know okay that the worst
case function margin is equal one and
clearly this is a scaling constraint
right because if if you solve for w and
b um you know and you find that your
your worst case function margin is
actually 10 whatever
Then by dividing through WV and B by a
factor of 10, I can get my functional
margin to be equal to one. Okay. So this
is the scaling constraint I'm going to
imply and and and this this more
compactly written as follows. This is
imposing a constraint that the
functional margin be equal to one.
Um and so if we just take you know what
I wrote down as number two our previous
optimization problem and add the scaling
constraint we then get the following
optimization
problem min over WMP
Yeah. Okay.
Um I guess previously we had a
maximization over you know gamma hat
divided by the norm of w. So let's
maximize one over the norm of w. But so
that's the same thing as minimizing the
norm of w ^2 right max one over norm of
w is the same as min w normal w ^2 and
then these are our constraints since
I've added the constraint to the
function margin
01 okay and this is actually um and this
is actually you know
my
final
well final formulation of the optimal
margin classifier problem at least for
now. Okay. Um so the picture to
uh keep in mind for this I guess is that
um you know our optimization objective
is want to minimize the norm of w and so
our optimization objective is just a big
quadratic function right and there's b
somewhere in this picture we can't draw
it so
you parameters w1 and w2 and you want to
minimize a quadratic function like this
so quadratic function just has contours
that look like this Um and moreover you
have a number of linear constraints in
your parameters. So you may have a
linear constraint that eliminates that
half space. A linear constraint
eliminates that half space eliminates
that half
space and so
on. And so the picture is you have a
quadratic function and you're ruling out
various you know half spaces um with
each of these linear constraints. And I
hope if you can picture this in 3D, I
guess you can't control it in 3D. Um
hope you can convince yourself that this
is a convex problem that has no local
optima, right? Um that if you run your
gradient descent within this set of
points that that hasn't been ruled out,
then you converge to the global
optimum. Um and so that's a convex
optimization problem that that sort of
nice and yeah relatively easy to solve.
Okay. um questions about
[Applause]
this. Okay, actually just raise your
hand if this makes
sense. Okay, cool.
Um so this gives you the optimal margin
classifier algorithm. Um it turns out
that you know this is a convex
optimization problem. So you can
actually take this formulation of the
problem and throw it at um off-the-shelf
software what's called a QP or quadratic
program solver. This sort of
optimization problem is called a
quadratic program with a quadratic
convex objective function and set of
linear constraints. So you can actually
download software to solve these
optimization problems for you. Um,
usually I I actually wouldn't use the
use gray descent because because you
have constraints like these. Although
you could actually modify gradient
descent to work for this too.
Um, so we could just declare success and
say that we're done with this
formulation of the problem. But what I'm
going to do now is take a digression to
talk about primal and dual optimization
problems. And in particular, I'm going
to later I'm going to come back and
derive yet another very different form
of this optimization problem. Um, and
the reason we'll do that is because it
turns out this optimization problem has
certain properties that make it
amendable to very efficient algorithms.
Um and moreover I'll be deriving what's
called the dual formulation of this that
allows us to um apply the auto margin
classifier even in sort of very high
dimensional feature spaces even in
sometimes infinite even in sometimes
infinite dimensional feature spaces. So
we'll come back to that later but um let
me now spend some time talking about um
convex optimization.
So I'm actually curious how how many of
you you know from like I don't know
calculus uh remember the method of
lrange multipliers for solving an
optimization problem like minimum or
minimization or maximization problem
subject to some constraint. How many of
you remember like the method of lrange
multipliers for that? Oh okay cool some
of you. Yeah. So if you don't remember
don't worry I I'll I'll describe that
briefly here as well. But what I'm
really going to do is uh talk about a
generalization of this method of lrange
multipliers that you may or may not have
seen in in like you know some calculus
classes. Um but if you haven't seen it
don't worry about it.
Um so you know the method of the granch
multipliers was
um well suppose of some function you
want to minimize or minimize f of w um
but subject to some set of constraints
that h i of w must be equal to zero from
i = 1 through l okay and um given this
constraint I'll actually usually write
it in a vetorial form in which I'll
write h of w
as you know this vector value
function say that is equal to zero okay
where zero with the arrow on top I use
that to denote the vector of all zeros
um so you want to solve this
optimization problem right um some of
you have seen method range multipliers
where you
construct let's call it a lrangeen
Right? Which is your original
optimization objective plus sum of our
lrange multipliers times constraints.
And these parameters beta I call the
lrange
multipliers. And so um the way you
actually solve your optimization problem
is you take the partial derivative of
this with respect to your original
parameters and set that to
zero. Take the partial derivative
respect to your lrange multiplies beta
and set that to zero.
Um and then you know this famous theorem
proved by I guess Joseph Louise Lrange
was that um for W for some value W star
to be a solution
um it is
necessary that
um There exists beta star right at the
backwards e there exist. So there exists
beta star such that
oops excuse
me. Okay. such that those partial
derivatives um are equal to zero. Right?
So, so the the the um the method of the
grand multipliers is to solve this
problem. Um you construct the lrangeian
take the derivatives respect to the
original parameters b the original
parameters w and with respect to lrange
multipliers beta set the partial
derivatives equal to zero and solve you
know for all solutions and then you
check each of the solutions to see if it
is indeed a minimum right. Um
so right so what I'm going to do is
actually um write down a generalization
of this. Okay and again if you haven't
seen that before don't worry about it.
This is fine. Right. So what I'm going
to do is actually write down a
generalization of this to solve a
slightly more difficult type of
constraint optimization problem. um
which is suppose you want to minimize f
of
w subject to the constraint that gi of
w excuse me is less than equal to zero
um and that h i of w is equal to
zero okay and again using my vector
notation I'll write this as g of w is
equal to zero
and h of w is equal to
zero. So unlike the previous case, we
now have inequality constraints as well
as equality constraints.
Um I then have a lrangen or is actually
some sometimes call this a generalized
lrangen which is now a function of my
original optimization parameters w as
well as two sets of lrange multipliers
alpha and
beta. And so this will be f of w plus
Okay,
now here's a cool part. Um I'm going to
define theta subscript
p of w to be equal
to max over alpha beta subject to the
constraints that the alphas are greater
than equal to
zero of the
lrange. Okay. Um
And
so I want I want you to
consider you know the optimization
problem min over w of max over alpha
beta such that the alphas are greater
than zero of the lrangen
um and that's just equal to min over w
theta p of
um W. Okay. Um and just to give this a
name, the the uh the locate the
subscript P here stands a primal
problem. Um and that refers to you know
this entire
thing. Um this optimization problem that
I've written down is is called the
primal problem. This means this is the
original optimization problem we're
interested in solving and later on I'll
derive derive another version of this
but that's what p sense was and this is
a primal problem.
Um now I want you to look at consider
theta of peak and and and in particular
I want to consider the problem of what
happens if you minimize w uh minimize as
a function of w this quantity theta of p
right
so so let's look at what theta p of w is
um notice that if gi of w is greater
than zero. So, so let's pick some value
of W and let's ask what is state of P of
W. Okay. So, if W violates one of your
primal problems
constraints
then say the P of W will be infinity,
right? Um why is that? Coming back to
this previous board for a second. Um
suppose I pick a value of W that
violates one of these constraints. So gi
of w is is
positive. Um then well theta p right is
is maximized as function of alpha and
beta the lrangian. So if one of these gi
of w's is positive then by setting you
know the corresponding alpha i to plus
infinity I can make this arbitrarily
large. And so if w violates one of my
primal problems constraints one of the
gis then max over alpha of the lrangeen
will be plus infinity. Okay. Um and
similarly and well and and in the same
way because in a similar
way
if hi of w is not equal to
zero then theta
p of w will also be infinity for for
very similar reason because um if h of w
is not zero for some value of i then in
my ludran I had a beta i times hi term
right and so by setting you know beta i
to be plus infinity or minus infinity
depending on the sign of hi. I can make
this plus infinity as
well. Um and otherwise
um theta p theta p of w is just equal to
f of w, right? Um, turns out if I have a
value of W that satisfies all of the GI
and the HI constraints, then when you
maximize in terms of alpha and beta, you
know, all of the lrange multiplier terms
will actually be the maximum will
actually be obtained by setting all the
lrange multiply terms to be zero. And so
theta p just left with f of
w. Um
thus theta p of w is equal
to f of w if
constraints are
satisfied this if the gi and hi
constraints and is equal to plus
infinity
otherwise. Okay.
So the problem I wrote down with
minimizes a function of w theta p of w.
This is just your original
problem, right? That's just exactly the
same problem as my original primal
problem because if you choose a value of
w that validates the constraints, you
get your infinity. And if you satisfy
the constraints, you get f of w. So this
is really just the same as well saying
satisfy the constraints and minimize f
of w right that's that's really what
minimizing theta p of w is okay um raise
your hand if this makes
sense yeah okay
cool
so all right I hope no one's getting mad
at me for like doing so much work than
we come back to exactly the same thing
we started with. Um, so here's the cool
part.
Um, let me now define the dual
problem. Um, define theta
D and D stands for duo and um, this is
now a function of alpha and beta. It's
not a function of the lrange multiplier.
It's not of W. defined this to be
minimized over W
of my generalized
lrangian. Okay. And
um my dual problem is
um is this. In other words, this
is max over
that. Okay. And so um so this is my dual
optimization problem to maximize over
alpha and beta theta d of alpha and
beta. Right? So this this this this
optimization problem I guess is my dual
problem. Um I want you to compare this
to our previous primal optimization
problem. Right? The only difference is
that um you know I took the max and min
and I switched the order around of the
max and min that that's that's the
difference in the prime and the dual
automated one. Um and it turns out
that is a is sort of a is a fact is you
know true generally that um b star is
less than p star in other words I think
I defined p star previously p star was
the value of the prime optimization
problem um and and in other words that
um it's just you know generally true
that the max of the min of something is
less than equal to the
min of the max of something. This is a
general fact. Um, and just as a concrete
example, the max of y in the set
01 times excuse me of the min of the set
in
01 of indicator x=
y. Right? This is less than equal to
min. Okay. Um so this this this equality
this inequality actually holds true for
any function you might plug in here. And
this is one specific example where the
min of
XY excuse me min of X of indicate X
equals Y this is always equal to zero
right because whatever Y is you know I
can choose X to be something different
so this is this is always zero whereas
um if I exchange the order of the min
and
max then this thing here is always equal
to one so zero is leal one um and more
generally this min max that's going to
excuse me this max min le b le b le b le
b le b le b le b le b le b le blessing
with the min max holds true for any
function you might put in
there. Um but it turns out that
sometimes under certain conditions
um these two optimization problems have
the same value. Sometimes under certain
conditions the primal and the dual
problems um have the same
value and so um you might be able to
solve the dual problem rather than the
primal problem. Okay. And the reason to
do that is that sometimes which we'll
see in the optimal margin classifier
problem support vector machine problem
the dual problem turns out to be much
easier to solve and has it has many many
useful properties that will make use of
um uh compared to the
primal. So
um
see for the sake of
So um what I'm going to do now is write
down formally the set of conditions
under which that's true where the prime
and the dual problems are equivalent. Um
and so our strategy for working out for
deriving support vector machine
algorithm will be that we'll write down
the primal optimization problem which we
did previously in the mass margin
classifier and then we'll derive um the
dual optimization problem for that and
then we'll solve the dual problem and by
modifying that a little bit that's how
we'll derive a support vector machine
right but let me actually for now let me
just first for the sake of completeness
I'll just write down the conditions
under which the primal and the do
optimization problems give you the same
solution. Um so let f be
convex. Um uh if you're not sure what
convex means for the purposes of this
class, you can take it to mean that the
hessen h is positive semidefinite right.
So it just means it's a you know
bow-shaped function like that right and
uh want to learn more about convex
optimization um again please come to you
know this week's discussion section
towards
um let's
suppose hi the hi constraints are aphine
and what that means is that um hi of w
equals alpha i transpose w + bi okay um
this essentially means the same thing as
linear without without the term B here
we say hi is linear when we have a
constant intercept term as well this is
technically called aphine rather than
linear and let's suppose the gis
um are strictly
feasible and
Um what that means is that there exists
a value of the W such that
um from
I GI of W is less than zero. Okay, don't
worry too much about I'm I'm writing
these things now for for for the sake of
completeness but don't worry too much
about the technical details but strictly
feasible just means that there's a value
of w such that all of these constraints
are satisfied with strict inequality
rather than with less than equal to
um under these
conditions there will exist war star
alpha star beta
star such that war star solves the
primal
problem and alpha star and beta star the
lrange multipliers solve the dual
problem.
Um
[Music]
and the value of the primal problem will
be equal to the value of the dual
problem will be equal to the value of
your lrange
multiplier excuse me will be equal to
the value of the generalized lrangeent
evaluated at w star alpha star beta
star. In other words um you can solve
either the primal or the dual problem
you get get the same
solution. Um
further you
know your parameters will
satisfy these conditions. Um partial
derivative with respect to parameters
would be zero. Um and actually if you
keep this equation in mind we'll
actually use this in a second when we
take the lranjen and we of our support
vector machine problem and take a
derivative with respect to w to solve to
solve our to derive our dual problem. We
actually perform this step ourselves in
a
second. Um partial return with respect
to lranch multipliers beta is equal to
zero.
Um turns out this will hold it true too.
Um, this is called the
uh this is called the KKT
complimentarity condition. Um, KKT
stands for Kush Kucker which were the
authors of this
theorem. Um well and by tradition
usually list five KQT conditions but the
other two
are okay just just that the alpha is a
greater zero which we had previously and
that your uh constraints are actually
satisfied. Okay.
So,
[Music]
um, let's see. Half an
hour. All right.
So let's take this and apply this to our
um auto margin
um optimization problem that we had
previously. Um I just want to say one
word about this um which is
oh I want to say one word about this KKT
uh complimentarity condition that
condition that you at your solution you
must have that alpha* i * gi of w is
equal to zero um
so let's
see so if a product of two numbers is
equal to zero that means that um at
least one of these things must be equal
to zero, right? For for a product of two
things to be equal to zero. Well, that
just the saying either alpha i or gi is
equal to del is equal to zero, right? So
what that implies is that the the
um just a kisher
uh
See I most people just say KKT but I'm
going to show you the right spelling of
of um of of of the names. Um so KKT
complimentarity condition implies that
if alpha is non
zero that necessarily implies that
um gi of war star um is equal to zero
right
um
and usually the
um it turns out so all the K condition
guarantees is that um you know at least
one of them is zero. Um it may actually
be the case that both alpha and GI are
both equal to zero. But in practice when
you when you solve this optimization
problem you find that you know to a
large part alpha I star is not equal to
zero if and only if gi of w star is
equal to zero. This is not strictly
true. Um because it's possible that both
of these may be zero. Um but in practice
when when just when you solve problems
like these you for the most part usually
exactly one of these things will be non
zero. Um and also when this holds true
when GI of W star is equal to zero we
say that um GI you know GI of W I guess
is an
active constraint um because you recall
our con our constraint was that GI of W
must be less than equal to zero and so
if it's equal to zero then then we say
that that's a constraint that that this
is an active
constraint. All right. Um once we talk
about SVMs, I actually come back and say
a couple and just extend this idea a
little bit
more.
Um this is on a different
board. I might return to this board in a
second.
it.
Um so let's go back and work out what
are the primal and the dual optimization
problems for our optimal margin
classifier for the optimization problem
that we worked out just now. um as a
point of
notation in what I've been writing down
so far in deriving the KT conditions um
my lrange
multipliers were
um alpha i and beta i. It turns out when
I apply this you to work out the svm
um turns out I only have one set of
lrange multipliers alpha i. And
also as I was working out the KT
conditions, you know, I used W to denote
the parameters of my um primal
optimization problem, right? I want to
minimize f of W. In my very first
optimization problem, you had an
optimization problem. It's parameters W.
Um in my SVM problem, I'm actually going
to two sets of parameters W and B. Okay,
so this is just
a keep that sort of slight notation
change in mind.
So problem we worked out previously was
we want to minimize the norm of w ^2 and
just add a half there by convention
because it makes another work math work
out
nicer and subject to the constraint that
yi * wrpose
xi plus b must be really greater than
one. Okay.
Um and so um let me just take this
constraint and I'll rewrite it as a
constraint GI of W comma
B again right previously I had GI of W
but now I have parameters W and B so I
have GI of W comma
B defined
as this
one.
Okay. So
um let's look at the implications of
this in terms of the uh KKT dual
complementarity condition. Okay.
Um so we have that alpha i is greater
than equal to
zero right that necessarily
implies gi of w comma v you know is is
equal to zero. In other words that this
is an active
constraint
right. Um and what does this mean? It
means that it actually turns out GI of
WB equals Z that um is that means
exactly that the training example XI
YI has functional
margin equals to one. Right? is remember
this this this constraint uh this
constraint was that um you know the
function margin of every example has to
be greater than equal to one right and
so if this is an active constraint if
this inequality hose of equality that
means that my training example I must
have functional margin equal to exactly
one right and so
um actually yeah right now I'll do this
on a different board I
So in pictures um what that means is
that you have some training
that right there some separating hyper
plane.
Um and so the examples with functional
margin equal to one will be exactly
those which are sort of
closest to my separating hyper plane. So
that's
my that's my equation of Wrpose V= 0.
And so in this in in this in this you
know cartoon example that I've drawn it
would be exactly
um these three
examples that have functional
margin equal to one and all of the other
examples being you know further away
than these three um will have functional
margin that are strictly greater than
one.
Okay. Um and the examples with
functional margin equal to one will
usually correspond to
um the ones where the corresponding
lrange multiplier is also not equal to
zero. And again this may not hold true.
It may be the case that GI and alpha I
equal to zero. But usually when GI is
not is is is zero, alpha I will be non
zero. Um and so the examples of function
margin equal one will be the ones where
alpha is not equal to
zero. Okay.
Um, one useful property of this is that
as suggested by this picture and and
sort of true in general as well, it
turns out that when you find a solution
to this to the SVM optimization problem,
you find that relatively few training
examples have functional margin equal to
one. Um, in this picture I've drawn, you
know, there are three examples with
functional margin equal to one. There
there are just three examples with this
minimum possible distance to your
separating hyper plane.
Um and these are the three these
examples of functional margin equal to
one.
Um they are what we're going to
call the support vectors. Okay. Um and
this leads to the name support vector
machine. There will be these three
points with functional margin one that
we call support vectors.
And um the fact that they're relatively
few support vectors also means that
usually most of the alpha eyes are equal
to zero. Right? So this alpha i is equal
to
zero for examples that are not support
vectors.
Okay. Let's go ahead and work out the
actual optimization
problem.
Um, so we had a massive margin
optimization problem. Um so let me go
and write down the
lranjen and um because we only have
inequality constraints right we only
have so gi sty constraints no h i style
constraints we only have inequality
constraints no no equality constraints
um I I'll only have near lrange
multipliers of type alpha no betas in my
in my generalizion
um but my lranjen will
12 w ^2
minus.
Oops. Okay, that's my lran engine.
Um, and so let's work out what the duo
problem is, right? And to do that I need
to figure out what theta d of alpha
again there no betas here. So what theta
d of
alpha is min with respect to w and b
of l b alpha. Okay. So the dual problem
is to maximize theta d as a function of
alpha. So let's work out what theta d is
and then and then that'll give us our
dual problem.
Um so to work out what this is well what
do we need to do right? We need to take
lrangen and minimize it as a function of
w and b. So I mean what is this to how
do you minimize lranges? So so in order
to minimize lrangen as a function of w
and b you know we do the usual thing
right we take the derivatives of of
lrangen with respect to w and b and we
set that to zero. That's how we minimize
the lranjen with respect to w and b. So
take the derivative with respect to w of
the lr
engine and
um I won't I'll just write down the
answer you know how to do calculus like
this right so I want to minimize this as
function of w so I take the derivative
and set to zero and I get
that and so this implies that w must be
must be that. Okay. Um and
so W therefore is actually a linear
combination of your input feature
vectors XI. Right? This is a sum of you
know various weights given by the alpha
then times XI which are your examples in
your training set. Um and this will be
useful later.
Um the other equation we have is
yeah partial derivative of electron with
respect to b is equal to minus sum of i
= 1 to
m
i and so also set that to equal to zero.
Okay. And so these are my two
constraints.
Um, and so,
[Applause]
um,
oh, next board. So, what I'm going to do
is I'm actually going to, you know, take
these two constraints and, um, well, I'm
going to take what I've worked out to be
the value for W and, um,
I'll draw over this. I'm going to take
what I've worked out to be the value for
W and, um, I'll plug it back in there,
right? to figure out what the lrange
what the lrange really is when I
minimize this with respect to w. Um
let's and I'll deal with b in a second.
So
um let's
see so my langen is
12 wrpose w
minus right.
Um so this first term wranspose
w you know this becomes sum from i = 1
to m alph y i x i
transpose right this is just plugging in
the value for w that I worked out
previously.
um since this is wrppose w and so when I
expand out this quadratic function and
when I plug in w over there as well I
find that
um I have
that um oh where I'm using these angle
brackets to denote inner product. So um
you know this thing here it just means
the inner product you know x i transpose
xj right
um and the first and second terms are
actually the same except for the minus
one/2 and so this simplifies to be equal
to
that. Okay.
Um,
so let me go ahead
and call this W of alpha
Um my dual problem is therefore the
following. I want to
maximize w of alpha which is that you
know big expression I wrote out. Oh and
um uh the the the I realized notation is
somewhat unfortunate. I'm using capital
W of alpha to denote that formula I
wrote down earlier and then we also had
you know a lowerase W the the the
original parameters the primal problem
right lowerase W transpose XI so
uppercase and lowerase W are totally
different
things unfortunately the notation is
standard as well as far as I know so
um so our dual problem
is that subject to the alpha must zero
and
um we also have that um sum i y i alpha
i is equal to zero okay um that last
constraint was um was a constraint I got
from from this okay that sum of i uh
right sum of i y i alpha i was equal to
zero that's where that final constraint
came from okay
um Yeah, let me just I I think in
previous years that I taught this this
where does this constraint comes from is
is is slightly confusing. So let me let
me just take two minutes to say what the
real interpretation of that is and if
you don't understand it
is not a big deal I guess. Um so in when
when we took the partial derivative of
the lronium with respect to B we ended
up with this constraint that some y
alpha must be equal to zero. Um the
interpretation of that it turns out is
that
um
if some I
yi alpha i is not equal to zero then um
um theta d of wb is is
um actually excuse
Okay. Then theta d of alpha is equal to
z is uh is equal to
um minus infinity. We're minimizing
right. Yeah. Right. Okay. So in other
words um it it turns out my lrangeum is
actually a linear function of my
parameters b. And so the the
interpretation of that constraint that
worked out previously was that if sum y
i alpha i is not equal to zero then
theta d of alpha is equal to minus
infinity. Um and so if your goal is to
maximize as a function of
alpha theta d of alpha then you better
choose values of alpha for which sum of
y alpha i is equal to zero. Okay. And
then when sum of y alpha is equal to
zero then
um theta d of
alpha is equal to w of alpha. Okay. And
so that's why we end up deciding to
maximize w of alpha subject to that some
y alpha is equal to zero. Right.
Um yeah the the unfortunately the the
fact we had to deal with B sort of adds
just a little bit of extra notation in
our derivation of the duo. by the way
and and and so you know right all all
the action in the optimization problem
is is with W because B is just one
parameter right so
um okay let's check other questions
about
this okay cool so
um we've derived a dual optimization
problem and And really don't worry about
this if you're not quite sure where this
was. Just think of this as we worked out
that this constraint we worked out when
we took the partial derivative with
respect to B that this constraint has a
hose and so I just copy that over here.
Okay. Um but so we've now worked out the
dual of the optimization
problem. So our approach to finding to
deriving you an optimal margin
classifier or support vector machine
will be that we'll solve
um this dual optimization problem for
the parameters alpha
star and then um if you want you can
then you know this is the equation that
we worked out on on the previous one
right we said that w this is alpha w
must be equal
do that. And so um once you solve for
alpha, you can then go back and quickly
derive um you know w the parameters your
primal problem. We worked this out
earlier, right? Um and moreover um once
you solve alpha and w you can then you
know plug this back into your once you
solve alpha and w is really easy to
solve for b. um sort of B just as
interpretation
of you have a training set right you
found the direction for W so you know
where separating hyper plane's direction
is you know it's got to be you know one
of these
planes right you you know you know the
orientation of separating hyper plane
you just have to decide where to place
this hyper plane and that's what solving
B is so once you solve alpha and w it's
really easy to solve B um you can plug
alpha and W back into the primal primal
optimization problem and
um and solve for
B and um I'll just write it
down for the sake of completeness but
Um, okay. And the intuition behind this
formula is just that you know find
the find the um find the worst positive
example and the worst negative example
like let's say you know this one and
this one say and then you split the
difference between them and that tells
you where you should set the threshold
for for where to place the sering hyper
plane.
Um and then that's the this is the
optimal margin classifier or this is
also called the support vector machine
if you do not use one more idea which is
called kernels and I'll say a few words
about that. Um but I hope the process is
clear right so it's a dual problem we're
going to solve the dual problem for the
alpha eyes that gives us w and that
gives us
b.
So there's just one more thing I want to
point out as a leadin to um the next
lecture which is that well I just write
this out again I
guess which is that it turns out um we
can take the entire algorithm and we can
express the entire algorithm in terms of
inner products and here here's what I
mean by that um so I said that the
parameters W is a sum of your input the
examples. And so when you need to make a
prediction, right, you know, someone
gives you a new value of x, you want to
evaluate the hypothesis on the value of
x that's given by g of wrpose x + b,
right? Where g was this, you know,
threshold function that outputs minus1
or plus one, right? And so you need to
compute wrpose x plus b. And that is
equal
to alpha i y
i. Okay. And that can be expressed as a
sum of these inner products between your
training examples and this new value of
x you're trying to value the algorithm
on right.
Um and this will lead into our next
lecture which is the idea of
kernels and it turns out that in the
source of feature spaces were used to
support vector machines. It turns out
that sometimes the training examples may
be very high
dimensional. Um it may even be the case
that the features you want to use are
you know infinite dimensional feature
vectors. But despite this it'll turn out
that there'll be an implicit
representation
um that you can use that will allow you
to compute inner products like these
efficiently.
And this holds true only for certain
feature spaces. It doesn't hold true for
arbitrary sets of features. But when we
talk about the idea of kernels um in in
the next lecture, we'll see examples
where even though you have extremely
high dimensional feature vectors, you
can compute um you you may never want to
represent Xi explicitly, right? If XI is
infinite dimensional feature vector, you
can't even store it in computer memory.
But you will nonetheless be able to
compute inner products between different
input feature vectors very efficiently.
And so you can for example you can make
predictions by making use of these inner
products. Right? I this is just x i you
know transpose right. Um you compute
these inner products very efficiently
and therefore make predictions. And
let's point out
also the other reason we derived the duo
was because
um on this board right when we worked
out what w of alpha is w of alpha
actually the same property that w of
alpha is
again written in terms of these inner
products right and so if you if you
actually you know look at the dual
optimization problem and step for all
the steps of the algorithm you find that
you can actually do everything you want
learn the parameters alpha Suppose you
do optimization problem, learn the
parameters alpha, you can do everything
you want without ever needing to
represent x i directly and and all you
need to do is represent is compute inner
products between feature vectors like
these. Okay.
Um well, one last property of this
algorithm that that that's kind of nice
is that um I said previously that um the
alpha are zero only for the are non zero
only for the support vectors, right?
only for the vectors that have
functional margin one. And in practice,
there'll be usually fairly few of them.
And so what this means is that if you're
representing W this way, then um you
know W will be represented as a fairly
small fraction of your training examples
because most of the alpha rise will be
zero. And so when you're summing up the
sum, you need to compute in the products
only of the support vectors, which is
usually a reasonably small fraction of
your training set. So that's another
nice property because most the alpha
eyes were zero. Okay. Um and well much
of this will make much more sense when
we talk about kernels. Um this quick
questions before I close.
Yeah. I mean it seems that for anything
we've done to work the point cloud has
to be really well behaved in that uh if
any of the points are on the kind of
wrong side. Yeah. No. Oh yeah. You're
right. For again for today's lecture I
assume that the data is linearly
separable that that you can actually get
perfect training error. I'll fix this
I'll fix this in the next lecture as
well. Relax that assumption.
So here we assume that you have two
points.
Okay. So if you have multiple Oh yeah.
So let's I it turns out there are ways
to generalize this multiple classes but
I probably won't but yeah that's
generalization leaf for later. Okay,
let's close the day. Then let's hope for
Colonel's next lecture.